# It's Not Your Fault -- The Deck Is Stacked Against You

As I get older, I become less and less surprised at discovering how outdated the information I received during my experience in the public education system was.  As a student who wished to excel in society, maximizing the efficiency of information absorption left little room for questioning its sources.  I was keenly aware that young people who questioned the authority of teachers (who displaced the authority of parents upon entering into compulsory education) were viewed and labeled as rebels without a cause -- questioning for the sake of questioning (as those who seek to be contrary so often do) without the respect afforded to more proper philosophers.  I feel for intelligent young people who have such tremendous energy and potential but few outlets for working out the inconsistencies they pick up from the education system.  Often, they are also correct in their skepticism over offers of mentorship that may be correction programs in disguise.  After all, why work to assimilate into a system that is stacked against them?  The greatest successes go against the grain, not with.

Continue to question everything, but work toward being able to conduct inquiries with amounts of emotion proportionate to each situation's actual impact on your life.  There are very few lines of inquiry that you will encounter in your lifetime where your entire life actually depends on it, so there is no need to treat every line of inquiry as if your entire life depends on it.  This is, of course, not to encourage the practice of completely eliminating emotions from all inquiries.  Passion, when applied appropriately, is an extremely effective tool for persuasion.  It takes practice to tame it for your benefit so it doesn't control you to your detriment.

## The Tip of the Iceberg -- The Socially Accepted and Perpetuated Victim-Blaming of Millennials

[The Fissuring Workplace](http://www.fissuredworkplace.net/transformed-workplace-op-ed.php) makes a compelling case for why Millennials are not succeeding.  David Weil observes that "Children born in 1940 had a 90 percent chance of earning more than their parents by the time they arrived at prime working age. \[...\] Children born in 1980 ― a few years before the official beginning of millennials, but indicative of their coming challenges ― face a coin-toss chance of doing better than their parents. That’s a reduction from 90 percent to 50 percent in a short span of economic history."  Policies that incentivize companies to (or fail to substantially disincentivize companies from) outsourcing work to foreign countries have been a big concern, but policies that incentivize companies (or fail to substantially disincentivize companies from) outsourcing work domestically to staffing agencies\*, general contractors, contractors, and freelancers allow companies to circumvent traditional labor laws, distribute the liability of labor rights across layers of companies, and keep their overhead low.  While there are certainly advantages to be had in the gig economy with regard to telecommuting and other flexibility, the cost is extremely high by the time all business costs and risks retained by the independent contractor are taken into account (equipment, collections risk, attorneys fees, etc.).

The [Employment Situation Summary](https://www.bls.gov/news.release/empsit.nr0.htm) released by the Bureau of Labor Statistics on 20180202 created some waves in the stock market recently.  While they do an excellent job of reporting the facts and statistical caveats, anyone reading this report second-hand (e.g. through the news) should keep in mind that "Unemployed" is a very specific category of people that don't include people who are institutionalized (which seems reasonable), those under-employed because they are technically employed but part time (which is further split between those who are part time for "economic reasons" and "non-economic reasons"), and the much larger number of people who are "Not in labor force".  This [Table](https://www.bls.gov/news.release/empsit.a.htm) gives the best high-level summary.  Over the last year, there has been no noteworthy changes.  With that in mind, all figures show very slight "improvements" compared to the projected population growth (since censuses are only taken decennially) indicating "recovery".  While employment rose within each education level, it's unclear if the jobs these people were placed into required that level of education or are within their fields of study.  It can be argued that those with at least some post-secondary education may soon find themselves fairing about as well as those without.

## Underneath the Surface

Payroll tax: The other income tax

## Awareness is Power
